We're almost done,
let's now make sure we can
view our user status and delete it
and as I already mentioned at the end of the last lecture, this again is a great practice for you
so definitely feel free to try this on your own first, pause the video now and implement these two functionalities.
Of course
we'll also do it together after a short pause.
So did you succeed?
Well let's try it together and I'll do both in one go.
I need to add two things,
one query and one mutation. The query is for getting the status
and actually since we're not using the approach I mentioned earlier where we add a new endpoint for
everything, we have to remember that with graphql, we can control which data we get back.
So I will add a general user query without any arguments,
always for the currently logged in user and I will return a user object here.
Now in my mutations, I will add my update status
mutation, I could add an update user mutation if I generally would be fine with the user changing, since
I have no such functionality planned in my app,
I will only add a special mutation for just the status
otherwise we could of course go with a more generic approach here too. There
I expect to get the status as a string and I will return the updated user.
With that, we can move on to our resolvers,
let me add the code for returning a user,
so for this user query. There I get no arguments, so I get that object but I will not retrieve anything
from there
and again I will write this as a async function to be able to use the await keyword.
I'll then check if the user is authenticated,
if he's not, then well we have a problem and I will not continue
otherwise I will get my user by awaiting for user find by ID and I can use the user ID stored in the
request and on that user here, I'm interested in the status right,
that's the status I want to return.
So if I find no user for that ID somehow, then I will basically do the same I did when I found no post,
I'll return error, no user found.
If I do have a user though, then I will simply return a response and that is my whole user data,
I just will make sure to replace the ID with user_id toString. So I can now theoretically
fetch all the data about a user I'm interested in but obviously I'll implement that in a way that I
only fetch the status and that is something I do here in my feed.js file of my frontend application.
There in componentDidMount, I send a request to an endpoint which does not exist anymore,
instead we're now of course targeting graphql,
the method here will now be post.
I will send the token but I'll also set the content type to application
json and I'll set the body to my query and that query is something I need to create up there,
graphql query is a constant I'll create here. That is an object with the query key
which again is surrounded by double back ticks or single back ticks but I need two, opening and closing
and here I'll send my request to my user query or I'll use the user query and of the data I get back,
I'm not interested in the name or the email,
I'm only interested in the status. That is my graphql query and that is what I'll send in stringified
version
to that endpoint.
Again handling errors like this will not work,
let's instead grab the code we have below, here where I just check for the existence of the errors
object after parsing the request body,
so here fetching status failed would be my error message
and when I extract the data, I need to drill into the data field and then the status field.
Now if I save that and I reload,
I got an internal error here, cannot return null,
let's quickly check our resolver, the user resolver,
I return my user object here
but I did not save it
I guess, this now looks better but I'm not seeing the status here
and I got an error about which I'll take care in a second. My status here is not found in data,
I have to drill into the user field as well.
We can see that if we go to the network tab and have a look at that request where we get that data, we
get data and in there, user which is the name of our query of course and I forgot that but obviously
query name is always where the data is stored in and that then has the status field.
So this is a change that is required
and now with that, we see the status and this error message also is gone,
like that.
So this is it,
now let's also make sure we can update a status and for that, let's first of all make sure we do something
for this schema
we added, for the update status schema in our resolvers file.
So this is the last resolver function I'll add here, update status.
I'll get my status argument and the request of course and I will as before use my async function
syntax and in here,
I first of all will check whether the user is authenticated,
if that's not the case, we throw an error and then I'll get my user by awaiting for user find by ID
for the request
user ID,
so for the logged in user. If I have no user then, we get a problem so I will copy that code from above
and throw an error
if that's the case otherwise I'll set the user status to the new status I'm getting as an argument
and then I will await user save to save the updated
user.
I can then return an object where I take my user.data and where I replace the ID,
so user ID with the stringified version of it
and this is my update status mutation. Now
last but not least, I also need to edit this on the frontend,
so in my react app and there, we simply search for the status update handler here where we of course
send a request to graphql and that should be a post request.
The headers are all right and I will define my graphql query
here, is an object
with the query key, my back ticks of course and the query now is a mutation with the name update status
or whatever you defined in your graphql schema file
and there I need to pass in the status which is a string,
so we need double quotation marks around the value which I'll now inject here and the value is this
state status, this is where the status is stored which the user enters into the input field and of
the data I get back,
I'm only interested in the status. Then we want to send this here in a stringified
version and again we don't handle errors here,
we handled them as we do up there checking for the existence of the errors object in our parsed response
data
and that is already it.
Now if I save that and save the backend as well,
if I add a couple of exclamation marks and I click update, seems to succeed and
we can validate this by reloading. If I now login with a different user, there of course we should
not see that updated status,
there we see the status of that user.
And with that, we moved our entire rest API over to graphql and I hope you see the power graphql
gives you by being more flexible regarding the data you fetch from the backend and therefore, your frontend
development can move faster because your backend gives you the entire bandwidth of data
you might be interested in.